[MUSIC PLAYING]
It is so good to see you
again, Klaus, here in Vienna.
We met at the same
time next year, right?
This is about the time we
met you, last year, here.
Yes.
And for the people
in our audience
who are not familiar
with your work,
I would like you to
give us a little bit
of background
about how you ended
up in such a strange field.
As a-- originally, you were a
classic kind of art curator.
Or more traditional.
I should say more
traditional art curator.
And now you are a curator of
some of the strangest stuff
on the planet.
And so let's talk about that.
And then we can start
getting into some
of the newer discoveries
since we last spoke.
A few years ago,
exactly around 1997,
I had, together with
a friend of mine,
the idea to bring to
Vienna, into an exhibition,
some unexplainable artifacts
from all over the world.
because when I
did overseas trips
for my cultural exhibitions,
mainly to Japan,
I had many hours on the airplane
and also in the hotel room.
So I read many books
from famous authors
about former civilizations,
about Atlantis,
Mu, and all these stories.
And I was a bit skeptical.
And I thought it
would be a good idea
to bring all or many of
these unexplainable artifacts
to Vienna, and show it in
an exhibition to the public,
and give the science the chance
to check on these artifacts,
if they are real, or frauds,
or imitations, or whatsoever.
How did you even come
about the actual artifacts?
I mean, it's one thing to
read about lost civilizations,
but how did you actually
come about the artifacts,
the original artifacts?
We researched.
Only at the beginning, we
researched only artifacts
which are in museums worldwide.
REGINA MEREDITH: OK.
Where there was not a really
explanation about them.
And a friend of mine,
a museum director,
he wrote to all his
colleagues around the world
and asked if we might be able
to lend some of these articles
for the exhibition in Vienna.
And one and a half years of
work after, that was just
one and a half year
before the planned opening
of the exhibition,
we received all
the answers from the museums.
And out of 356 requests,
we got only the acceptance
of one museum, of one artifact.
So all off friends, of course--
Not much of an exhibit
with one artifact.
No, no.
So everybody-- everybody
around us told us,
so you better give up because
in one and a half year,
what would you do, if you
have only one artifact?
How many do you need?
And we planned, originally,
showing about 200,
up to 220, pieces.
And from that moment on, we
started to research by ourself
through internet,
through telephone,
through several trips to South
America, to United States,
in Europe to some places.
And finally, at the opening
on 21st of June, 2001,
we could show 470 pieces.
-Oh.
Now did you have to get these
from private owners, private
collections from the most part?
From some small museums,
which we found especially
in South America, but
majority of these pieces
from private collections.
-Mm.
That's quite a feat.
I mean, just that
you had people.
I guess your friend that you
were speaking about, the person
you're doing this with, that
even knew who to contact
for these private
collections is pretty amazing
in and of itself.
KLAUS DONA: I would say--
This is not well known.
I would say we had
a lot of good luck.
And there were so many
coincidences, which just
brought us all these pieces.
I mean we planned 200, 220.
But finally, a little bit before
the opening of the exhibition,
we had the acceptance of 470.
REGINA MEREDITH: That's amazing.
So we couldn't refuse.
So the whole budget, of course,
exploded because we needed
more transportation costs,
backing costs, more showcases,
more lighting, and everything.
But it was worthwhile.
Well, this had to have been
not a freak show by any means,
but one of the strangest
collections of artifacts
ever assembled,
especially in that kind
of-- in those numbers.
And let's go back into
what you had to gathered.
Some of the stranger-- these are
all unexplained, pretty much?
Most of these were
unexplained items.
KLAUS DONA: Most of these.
Most of these.
They have no scientific
explanation, at this point,
behind them.
KLAUS DONA: That's right.
So let's talk about a few
of those original items
that still kind of blow
your mind to this day.
For example, one very
strange collection
we found in Ecuador, in a
small place called La Mana.
I heard about the finding
of over 300 pieces
which do not fit
any South American,
pre-Columbian culture.
Found there while gold
digging in a tunnel system
by an Ecuadorian engineer,
Engineer Sotomayor.
And through a friend,
through an Austrian friend,
we got the contact,
through his brother,
to the owner of this collection.
And we visited his place.
And when I saw these
pieces, I was just
shocked because
many of the pieces
have precise inlays,
colorful inlays.
REGINA MEREDITH: Oh.
Very precise inlays.
Yes.
-Yes.
And you see the colors,
of course, on daylight.
But later on in the
evening, the owner
brought some of these
pieces on the table
and he closed the light.
And we were surprised.
We thought, what's going on now?
And then he brought a black
light lamp, ultraviolet lamp.
And all the colors, the
inlays in these pieces,
were glowing and
shining very strong.
And the most interesting
piece there was a pyramid.
The shape like Egyptian pyramid,
but flat, made out in stone.
And 13 steps in carvings.
And on top, an eye.
And the eye-- the
color of the eye
was gray, light gray, dark gray.
But when he should brought
the black light-- when
he showed it on the
black light, the eye
was glowing very strong.
And it looked like there
is one star constellation
photo from NASA, which is called
The Eye of God or God's Eye.
REGINA MEREDITH: Oh.
God's Eye.
And this inlay, the shining of
this eye, looks quite similar,
I would say.
Any-- is there any idea,
whatsoever, of how old
that artifact may have been?
Stone Age dating is
the big difficulty.
-Yes.
-The big problem.
Yeah.
Because it's-- it
doesn't succumb
to the standard procedure
of carbon dating, right?
With bones and other things.
Right.
But one thing, if we talk about
none pre-Columbian cultures,
the oldest one is in the
Ecuadorian Valdivia culture.
And it goes back about 4,000 BC.
That means 6,000 years.
So if all these pieces have
no connection to any known
pre-Columbian, South
American culture,
the pieces should be at
least older than 6,000 years.
And very sophisticated.
KLAUS DONA: Very sophisticated.
In their artwork.
Very sophisticated.
Some of them are so precise that
when we showed them, the most
interesting ones, in Vienna,
some specialists in stone
working, they said it would
be even difficult to do
the same thing in our days.
KLAUS DONA (VIDEO PLAYBACK):
A big stone cup found together
with twelve little stone cups.
On the big cup, you
have in carvings
of a star constellation.
And the cup inside is very
magnetical on the outside only
in the center of the three
stones building a pyramid.
And this is, concerning
[INAUDIBLE], Impossible.
Because if a stone has metal
material inside the stone,
it must be same magnetical
from both sides.
This cup is different.
And to say nothing
of this substance
that glows in the dark.
Has-- have you figured
out what that is yet?
Has anyone--
What we think, it was
some illuminating crystals.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Illuminating crystals.
OK.
That they made it like powder.
And they used some glue or
any material to make it hard
and put it exactly in
the in carving lines.
But light emitting crystals?
Yes.
They're existing.
Precious stones or
semi precious stones,
if you put black light on them,
they are shining very strong.
Mm hm.
It's amazing.
And you did a video.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
A DVD.
[COMPUTER BEEPING]
Actually.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: That's
absolutely fascinating.
I've seen the DVD,
obviously, and, I mean,
we were just enthralled
throughout because,
again, no one has ever
seen these items before.
We're unlikely to ever come in
contact with them personally.
And so you've done us all
the service of putting this
together, traveling around
to these various collections,
and putting it in a DVD format.
So certainly, anybody that has
a chance to watch that DVD,
I highly recommend it.
-Thank you.
-OK.
So there were some
others as well.
And a lot of it seemed to
be astronomically oriented.
Yes.
Many of them.
For example, there is, also
in the same collection,
there is a big jade cup
and twelve little cups.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And in the big cup, there
is an inlay of a precise star
constellation.
And in the little ones, you
have in carvings of numbers.
And the numbers are looking
like the Mayan numbers,
but with a little difference.
So very interesting.
But for me, the most
interesting thing
was the pyramid with the eye.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
Because on the
bottom of this pyramid
was the inlay of the Orion
constellation in little gold
plates and an unknown writing.
So after receiving--
after making the photos
and showing some of the pictures
to one gentlemen, one professor
in Germany-- his name
was Kurt Schildmann--
and he was the president of
The German Language society.
And he spoke, and wrote, and
read more than 40 languages.
It's inconceivable,
but wonderful.
And he did research on
the Hindus warrior writing.
And also on the Easter
Island writings.
REGINA MEREDITH: Easter Island.
Yes.
And he said that there
is a light similarity
between those-- this
writing from South America,
and the Hindus warrior, and
the Easter Island writings.
And finally, he could decipher
the writing, the explanation
on the bottom of the pyramid.
And it was writing the
son of the creator comes.
That was his translation.
And later on, we
found other artifacts
in Colombia, in Ecuador.
In the United States,
in Illinois, there
is a famous story
going around about
the so called the Burrows Cave.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
Let's talk about
the Burrows Cave.
KLAUS DONA: I fully believe in
the originality of the pieces.
REGINA MEREDITH:
The authenticity.
OK.
I fully believe in it because
otherwise, Professor Schildmann
wouldn't have been able
to translate also some
of those stones from Illinois.
And we found the same
writing in Glozel.
In Glozel, 1940-- 1924, a
farmer found, on his ground,
hundreds of stones and
bones with in carvings
with the same writing.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Where is this again?
Glozel in France.
REGINA MEREDITH: In France.
Yes.
OK.
-Yes.
And still, until
today-- it was 1924.
Still, until today, the official
French science does not accept
those pieces as authenticity--
REGINA MEREDITH: Authentic.
-Authentic.
Yes.
And so this is the
same writing, you're
saying, that was on the
bottom of the little pyramid
with the glowing eye.
KLAUS DONA: Exactly
the same writing.
Deposited all over the planet.
KLAUS DONA: Later on, we found
pieces in Calabria in Italy,
in Malta, Mediterranean
island, in Turkmenistan,
and even in Australia.
That means there
must have existed
a global civilization
or a civilization which
had global contact in the past.
Meaning they needed
to move around.
They were able to get around.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
They got around.
KLAUS DONA: Or--
Or they came from elsewhere.
Or, for example, you have a
famous writing in the Bible.
For example, until the
building up the tower of Babel,
there was a-- they all
spoke only one language.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
But for the official
science, it's
difficult to accept this writing
because they say that it is
a mixture of different old
writings, like Greek writings,
like Rome's, and others.
So--
If you're looking at this,
then this-- and I want to go
back to Burrows Cave in a bit.
But along this
trajectory, then we
have to be assigning
a common civilization
very, very, very far back.
Maybe we're going
back as far as what
was known as Mu or Lemuria.
That's what I think so.
Because in the
collection of La Mana,
there was also a 350
kilo granite rock.
KLAUS DONA (VIDEO PLAYBACK): And
you have a natural white quartz
line going around the stone.
And all the continents
and countries
are in carved and inlayed
with a red material.
So you can see here
that approximately where
Israel or the near east is.
Showing Europe, showing United
States, part of South America,
Asia.
And there are two
continents in carved
which do not exist in this
style or even not exist today.
REGINA MEREDITH: In this day.
KLAUS DONA (VIDEO PLAYBACK):
Here, for example,
you see the quartz line is
passing the Atlantic Ocean.
And you see a
continent, which means
that must be the so-called
sunken continent Mu.
KLAUS DONA: And Japan also
is not showing like today.
Yes.
It's showing from the
northest Japanese islands,
now belonging to Russia.
Far down Taiwan, there's
a long continent.
And you know that outside
the southest Japanese island,
Yonaguni, very close
to Taiwan, they
found, in the 1980s,
human made, big, stone
structures under the sea level.
That means very [INAUDIBLE].
Yes.
And does that have to do with
Graham Hancock's explorations
at all?
Do you know?
Is it one and the same.
KLAUS DONA: Graham--
that's Yonaguni.
Yonaguni, yeah.
KLAUS DONA: And Graham Hancock
wrote about it in his books.
Right.
KLAUS DONA: And he
got also contact
with Professor Masaaki Kimura.
That's a Japanese,
undersea geologist who
does all of these researches.
And Professor Kimura
came to Vienna
for the opening of
our exhibition, 2001,
because he lended us the model
of the biggest structure,
under sea structure.
And he also lended
us two artifacts
he found next to this stone
structure under the sea level.
Now is the supposition
that may have been part
of the lost continent of Mu?
For me, it looks like.
And I got many informations.
For example, from Mongolia, they
found pieces made out of jade.
Very strange pieces.
But for me, the most
interesting piece,
which is now in a family
collection since hundreds
of years in Macao, in
China-- I received,
from the family, many photos.
And there is one-- one
piece made out of bronze.
A bronze statue.
And when I saw this
picture, first I thought,
they sent me a piece from
Egypt because it's exactly
showing Isis, the Goddess Isis.
REGINA MEREDITH:
The Goddess Isis.
Yes.
And there a lot of
researchers, already 200 years
ago-- 150 years,
200 years ago, they
researched on the so-called
sunken continent Mu.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And there was a British
Colonel in India.
And he did a lot of
research in India.
And he found, in a temple, some
plates with unknown writing.
And the monks helped
him to translate it.
And it was talking about the
sinking of the continent Mu.
And for me, many
of the artifacts
are showing a route
from the Pacific Ocean
through Japan, through
China, down to India,
and further on to Egypt.
And on the other way,
from the Atlantic Ocean,
Atlantis-- the so-called
Atlantis civilization.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
KLAUS DONA: Atlantis continent.
There is a route showing
to South America, Mexico,
but on the other hand,
also to Western Africa.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
KLAUS DONA: And then
further on to Egypt.
Egypt.
Yes.
So why the Egyptian
culture suddenly appeared
in such a precise style?
Or even the Sumerian?
6,000 years.
Suddenly, they started
with mathematics--
REGINA MEREDITH: Exactly.
With astronomy and
many other knowledge.
Everything suddenly.
And this is very strange.
-Yes.
It is strange.
And the esoteric thought on
that already is out there.
But again, people
are just trying
to piece things together.
You don't necessarily
have scientific basis
for a lot of it, but there
is other mythological basis.
Ancient texts, rare
texts, and interpretations
would piece it together that
Egypt, the Egyptian culture,
was simply an extension.
And there was a much
more ancient Egypt,
Egyptian culture, than
what we know of now.
It was simply an extension
of the Atlantian culture
as some of the
people from Atlantis
actually bridged
over into Egypt.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
And so-- and for Mu, it
would make-- why wouldn't it
make sense that would have
a very similar phenomena?
And then looking at
it from that level,
I always find it curious
that even in the Bible,
right, it speaks of
the Tower of Babel.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
And it speaks of
the people being
separated to various
places all over the planet.
But I never heard
anyone actually
look at the dynamics of
how those people were
placed elsewhere.
Because really, what's coming
up to me in these themes,
if we're looking at
Mu-- we're going to get
into some of this in a bit.
Things that are way out of
place from where we have--
Oh, yeah.
They supposedly originated.
Very heavy items that really,
realistically, didn't come over
certainly in dugout canoes.
OK.
So we're looking at the
phenomenon of space travel.
We're looking at the phenomena
of ancient extraterrestrial
cultures that have probably been
around and doing quite a bit
throughout time.
And we've-- we've spoken about
that in other interviews.
But what struck me is
that the Babel phenomena,
is that if you have
aircraft, you can simply
transport large portions of
populations to other areas
and deposit them.
I mean, it's certainly
within possibility.
It's a poss--
We just don't ever
ask the questions.
I mean, is a lot
of it sitting right
there, you find, in
plain sight to be asked,
but we just don't ask?
Because what could
not be, should not be.
That's always a big explanation.
I mean, there are so many
things all over the world.
If the official science would
accept some of the pieces which
I've found all over the world--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
They must re-write
human history.
And everyone's resistant
to this kind of change,
especially if you're left
hanging there with no tools
to be able to decipher
how this happened.
That seems to be where
things get hung up.
But there's another
part to it, too.
And that has to do
with sheer commerce.
And we're going to talk
about that a little later.
But now that we've kind
of gone off on that,
that side track, a bit, let's
get back to Burrows Cave
because this is one example.
Burrows Cave wrote a book.
And let's talk
about where it is,
and what's been found
there, and everything.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
It's found in Illinois.
-In America.
If look today,
into the internet,
90% of the writings
you find is saying
that the whole story is fraud.
REGINA MEREDITH: A hoax.
The usual story.
It's a hoax.
For me, it's difficult
to believe that it's
a hoax because how
could someone decipher
or read a writing which
officially does not exist?
And Professor Schildmann, he
passed away a few years ago,
in the age of 94.
And he was translating some
of the Burrows Cave stones.
And it was talking
about Jupiter,
Venus, flying objects, big
catastrophes, and such stories.
A man in the age of
85 up to over 90,
he's not interested in writing
about fantastic or fraud--
REGINA MEREDITH: Fairy tales.
Fairy tales or
something like that.
He was a serious,
German scholar.
He was very serious.
And there is another
man living until today,
and hopefully
several more years.
It's a Italian professor.
And in Calabria, a land owner
found after a heavy stone--
he found ceramic plates
and artifacts on his ground
with exactly the same
writing like on Burrows Cave.
And there was a big
plate, ceramic plate,
and this professor in Italy
received all the photos.
And he could
translate the writing
on the big, ceramic plate.
And it was explaining a
place in the southern Italy
where there is a little
stone circle, where there is
a mastodon, a
pre-historic elephant,
statue out of--
made out of stone.
And in this area, there are
the graves of the sea kings.
The sea kings?
The sea kings.
The translation was
talking about the graves
of the sea kings.
And an Italian publisher of
an archaeological magazine,
very serious man,
Adriano Forgione,
he found, on the
translation, the stone
circle, the mastodon statue--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
Made out of stone.
Very old because it's
already nearly destroyed,
but still you can see it's
not showing an elephant.
It's showing a mastodon.
Yes.
From another age.
And the area-- the area of the
graves because they did ground
penetrate radar
research on spot.
And they found tunnel and
anomalies underground.
But they did not receive
the allowance to excavate.
The permissions.
KLAUS DONA: Yeah.
They couldn't go
in and excavate it.
Now this is, again,
you're Calabria?
KLAUS DONA: In Calabria.
-Yeah.
Italy.
KLAUS DONA: So how
can you find places
describe on a fraud plate
in a non existing language?
For me, it's impossible.
Yes.
So many coincidence?
I don't believe that's possible.
Well, now there so
many that we're really
having to, in all
fairness, take it out
of the realm of coincidence.
There's something-- and
there's another story.
There's something else that's
been going on all along.
KLAUS DONA: I think so.
Now I'm just going
back one more time.
What did they find
in Burrows Cave?
What was supposedly--
and I know Philip Coppens
has written about this as well.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
We've interviewed Philip, so
we can look some of his work.
But tell us what you
know was found there.
What I know was found there
were gold artifacts, thousands
of stones with these
unknown in carvings,
but also showing faces,
profiles, of human
from different continents,
like black people,
like Asian peoples, like
South American peoples.
So just things
which is incredibly.
REGINA MEREDITH: That are
not native to that region.
REGINA MEREDITH: Definitely not.
Definitely not.
Tell us about the
person who found
this, all these artifacts,
Burrows himself.
And when did this happen?
KLAUS DONA: Russell Burrows.
I met him 2001.
He brought some of his
findings, some of his stones,
to the exhibition to Vienna.
And he did, also, a
speech in a conference.
And he explained-- and he wrote
a book about Burrows Cave.
He explained that he found,
also, over man sized statues
with precious stones inside,
that he found small chambers
with sarcophagus--
REGINA MEREDITH: Small
what with sarcophagus?
KLAUS DONA: Statues.
REGINA MEREDITH: Statues.
OK.
KLAUS DONA: Statues.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
KLAUS DONA: Sarcophagus.
Sarcophagus.
In Illinois.
In a cave.
KLAUS DONA: Made out of gold.
Made out of gold.
Oh, of course.
So for me, the big
question is, how
can you bring gold sarcophagus,
which must be very, very heavy,
inside an underground
tunnel system?
That's a very big question.
Then he explained that he
also found some papyrus rolls.
Some papyrus.
KLAUS DONA: Papyrus.
Papyrus rolls?
Scrolls.
And that would be
something very interesting
for me because that might give
us informations about where
those pieces came from.
REGINA MEREDITH: Has-- has
anyone seen the scrolls?
No.
REGINA MEREDITH: He hasn't--
He only was talking about.
He-- does he have
access to them or--
KLAUS DONA: I have no idea.
-I don't know.
We don't know.
KLAUS DONA: I have no idea.
Oh, OK.
I mean, yes.
It would be absolutely
fascinating to see
what's on them.
But again, you say that
the writing that was
on some of those artifacts--
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
Was the same as the other
you were speaking about,
this unknown.
KLAUS DONA: Which we
found all over the world.
That possibly an original
language of Mu or something.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
I mean, we can-- it's just
theoretical at this time.
So if all these
pieces are fraud,
there must have been a guy or
some guys already before 1924
because the first
official finding
was in Glozel in France.
Of the same writing.
Already before 1924, doing
some fakes or frauds,
and bringing them from
Australia to the United States,
to South America, to
Europe, and hide it,
and hope that someday
someone finds it,
and get headache, what this is?
That would be quite an
endeavor to undertake just
for the sake of pulling off
one big hoax at some point
later in the future.
KLAUS DONA: Would
have been difficult.
It would have been
very difficult.
And we have many, many
more things to talk about.
We're going to take just
a little break right now,
and come back, and
talk about some
of the pyramids that
have been found,
that are in places that have
not been previously suspected.
We'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome back.
We were talking with Klaus
about some phenomenal artifacts,
a little bit earlier, that
contain a language that
has been lost for a very long
period of time that may even
have come from an original
language of earth people
from the lost continent of Mu.
But again, this is just
theory at this point.
We're all just looking to
slowly, but surely reveal
our own history to ourselves.
I mean, really, that's
what this is all about.
And whatever other
history is here as well.
Yes.
And probably the largest
icons to a past time
have to be pyramids.
And in fact, we're going
to be heading to Bosnia.
And we're going there because
of the Bosnian Pyramid.
You've already been
to this pyramid.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: And I would
like you to maybe just share
a little bit about
the pyramid itself,
what you find
particularly phenomenal.
And then about some
explorations beyond.
I got an invitation last year,
September, to a conference
to Visoko, to the place
of the Bosnian pyramids.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Outside of Sarajevo.
From a Professor Osmangic.
And when I saw the
list of speakers,
I saw that there are
nine or 10 scientists.
So I thought, who?
And I come with my
unexplainable artifacts.
You wanted to get
some validation
on some of your artifacts.
Yes.
But I don't have artifacts,
I only lended for research
or for the exhibition.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
So what I did, I made a
PowerPoint presentation.
But I have a very
good friend in Germany
and he invented
a new technology.
And I asked him, can
you do me the favor
and try to make a scan over
the so called The Sun Pyramid,
officially just a mountain?
REGINA MEREDITH: The Sun Pyramid
in Bosnia, which the Egyptians
are saying, impossible.
It's a fake.
It's just a mountain.
KLAUS DONA: Definitely.
REGINA MEREDITH: That's the--
that's the official word,
is it's a hoax right now.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
It's-- if you look
into the internet,
it's a hoax, like Burrows Cave.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And when he worked on it,
he called me two times.
And he said, that's a really
difficult thing because what
I find is just unbelievable.
And he did me a drawing on a
photograph of The Sun Pyramid.
And he showed me exactly,
in different colors,
that there are-- there is a
tunnel system inside this so
called mountain going from five
meters down to 120, 140 meters.
And even he was drawing
some rooms inside.
So there are tunnels
with rooms that
is spread down underneath
this Bosnian pyramid.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
And he said there was,
indeed, a pyramid there.
It wasn't a mountain.
There's pyramid there.
KLAUS DONA: And it shows exactly
that it's not just a mountain.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
It must be a pyramid
because otherwise,
why would you make some tunnels
and rooms inside a mountain?
And it's also an approval
that it is a pyramid because--
REGINA MEREDITH:
It's been approved.
Professor Osmanagic did, in
the past, several excavations
on top of the pyramid.
And they found human made
stone structures and all this.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
But officially, he is now--
the government prohibited it.
After the Egyptian specialists
said it's not a pyramid,
they prohibited excavation
on the pyramids.
Whoa, whoa.
Wait a minute.
The Bosnian government--
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
Prohibited any kind of
excavation on the pyramids--
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
Simply because of what
the Egyptians said?
Yeah.
Of course, because
they are afraid
that it's getting worldwide--
people are laughing about--
REGINA MEREDITH: Bosnia.
-Bosnia.
REGINA MEREDITH: Because
of the ridicule factor.
It's completely a ridicule
factor because if they--
and these are pyramids.
But if it's officially announced
that these pyramids must be
older than at
least 10,000 years,
then we talk about a high
civilization in Europe
older than 10,000 years.
That means older than the famous
accepted high civilizations,
which are only 6,000 years.
So there would
be, automatically,
a missing link of a high
civilization in Europe
older than the Egyptian.
Because until now, the
official scientists,
they say that the oldest
civilization, or the beginning
of the high
civilization, in Egypt,
in China, in Middle East,
they are only going-- they
started about 6,000 years ago.
Yeah, well, some of that
has already fallen by.
And the pyramids are
only 4,500 years old.
And all this, it will-- it
would change everything.
REGINA MEREDITH:
It upsets the story
and creates missing
links, theoretically.
Big missing links.
And it does upset academia.
It doesn't upset us though.
KLAUS DONA: No.
And it doesn't our viewers.
It's interesting.
-We want more.
We want to know more.
Everything.
-Of course.
Of course.
Because after getting-- after
being prohibited to make
excavation on the pyramid, he
started-- because they found--
with ground
penetrate radar, they
found about 2.5 kilometers,
away from The Sun Pyramid,
they found a huge
underground labyrinth.
And it's just amazing.
REGINA MEREDITH:
You went in there.
I went there because
they did excavation
since the last few years.
And they still
continue because it
is such a huge, big,
underground labyrinth.
We hear they're doing, what?
150?
They're excavating
about 150 meters a year
is the rate they're going.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
Yes.
-This is hand excavation.
Yeah.
-And why?
Because this labyrinth
is completely
and precisely perfect filled.
What do you mean field?
Oh, field.
The field.
Yes.
They filled it.
No, they filled.
REGINA MEREDITH: Oh.
The whole thing
has been filled in.
Yes.
The whole thing is
perfectly filled.
And if I say perfectly, that
means that it's so perfect
filled, that usually
you cannot do
it by hand because
always you would
have some empty space inside.
There is not one,
little, empty space.
So they've used some
technology to back
fill the entire labyrinth.
KLAUS DONA: It looks like.
I wonder why that
would have been done.
That's a big question.
REGINA MEREDITH: Why
would that fill that in?
Why do I make such a big
labyrinth, first of all?
And Professor
Osmanagic will tell you
that he thinks that
it was done already
more than 10,000 years ago.
That it was filled
in 10,000 or made?
It was built.
KLAUS DONA: No.
It was made at least.
-Yes.
OK.
And he thinks, upon some
of the material findings,
that it was closed
about 5,000 years ago.
But why, first of all, they
make such a big labyrinth
with hundreds of tunnels?
And the second,
most bigger question
is, why do you fill
it so precisely?
To fill it back so it almost
is completely inoperative then.
Completely.
Because normally, if you
close your tunnel system
or your secret place,
it's enough with about 5,
or 10, or 15 meters.
Right.
But the whole
thing-- it really--
KLAUS DONA: The whole thing.
It would seem that they
were trying to make whatever
it is completely inoperative.
Right.
And apparently, it is a
field inside and energetic.
KLAUS DONA: It is.
That is absolutely perfect
for rejuvenation, healing,
and so forth.
Which is interesting that
would all be shut down.
You have no radiation at all.
Nothing.
No radiation.
Usually, there's radiation
just from the earth itself.
KLAUS DONA: Right.
-There's no radiation.
Yes.
And you ions.
REGINA MEREDITH: Ions.
Negative ions.
Over 40 times more than
in a very, very good room.
And they further you go inside,
you have always fresh air.
Yes.
The further you go inside.
How does this happen?
So that was filled in.
So now they're excavating at
150 meters a year on that.
But another phenomena.
Again, you mentioned
your German friend
that has a very,
very, very interesting
technology that's
able to determine
what's going on in the earth.
And you mentioned him a
bit ago, but you've also
found, through this
technology, there are
other payments in that area.
-Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: This
isn't the only pyramid.
No.
That's not the only one.
We got-- that's why
I, personally, think
every mythology, every legend--
Every legend.
OK.
Every legend has a big
percentage of reality included.
So now just to
get this straight,
when you and your technological
partner get together,
you often will follow
legend, where legend
has it that there's been--
KLAUS DONA: Or informations.
Or information about from maybe
even from the indigenous people
that there was once a pyramid
here or different kinds
of people and so forth.
Then that kind of determines
where you're going
to focus your search, right?
KLAUS DONA: That's right.
-OK.
So in Bosnia now, you
have-- we have the known--
The Sun Pyramid that they're--
well, they were excavating.
And two more?
You say you know of at least
two more pyramids in Bosnia?
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
Next to this pyramid.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right
next to this one.
OK.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
Where they are--
Professor Osmanagic
is sure that these
are other pyramids.
REGINA MEREDITH: And you're--
the technology's showing
they are other pyramids?
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
-OK.
And now let's go to Crete.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
That's an interesting--
we were talking off camera.
Take a little time to share with
us what's been found in Crete.
In Crete, we found
also a pyramid
because there existed an
information from old days
that the second son of King
Midas was buried in a pyramid.
And--
That was part of their
passed down history, religion.
Yes.
And we found-- we got the
informations from local people
that there is a mountain where,
the top of the mountain, there
are only a few trees.
And the earth on
top of the mountain
is different, like the
earths on the surrounding
places and mountains.
So we went there and we did
some research on the spot.
And later on, through
my friends technology,
and it's definitely a pyramid.
Again, like in Bosnia, there
are huge tunnels and rooms
inside this so called mountain.
And often the
legends of the people
all over-- because you've done--
you've been to South America.
Yes.
You've been all over the world
looking at this phenomena.
And your associate has also been
looking at it from their point
of view, technological
point of view,
to get validation and pinpoint
things here and there.
And oftentimes, the
local population-- or I
think you told me off
camera that in each case
the local population, native
population, has legend.
Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: Can you tell
what their legend generally is?
It always says about long,
long history of humans there.
Many of these legends,
in different continents,
different countries, are
talking about a big flood.
REGINA MEREDITH: A big flood.
Only a few people survived.
Then the story about the giants.
You find the story--
The giants after the flood.
You find the stories
and legends of giants.
Worldwide.
In any country.
Any local tribe, everywhere.
You find the story about giants.
And they are also connected
with the pyramids.
For example, in
Bolivia in Tiwanaku
and in Mexico in Teotihuacan--
when the Spanish conquistadors
arrived there, and they asked
the local people if they did
these buildings, they
explained no, these
were done at the time when
there was no sun shining
and it was made by giants.
And the interesting
thing is that, again,
pyramids and so-called flying
objects there-- I found
out a very interesting story.
You have the explanations
in the Mahabharata
in the Indian [INAUDIBLE]--
Yes.
KLAUS DONA: About the
so-called Vimanas.
Vimanas.
Yes.
And interesting story
is that the explanation
of how did they fly was,
upon the translation,
that they used mercury.
Didn't you know that?
-No.
I didn't know that.
The translation says
that they used mercury.
REGINA MEREDITH: Mercury.
And when I got friend
with the former of director
of the archaeological area
of Teotihuacan in Mexico,
he told me that he found
an underground tunnel.
And they did research in it.
And then he found a stone box.
Perfectly made stone box.
And when he opened
it, he was shocked
because this stone
box was filled
completely with liquid mercury.
REGINA MEREDITH: Mercury.
KLAUS DONA: And he closed it.
-Yes.
KLAUS DONA: And he
informed the official--
Hazmat team.
Government.
And the tunnel was
immediately closed.
And later on,
American universities
did some research inside.
Fascinating.
No, I have not heard that one.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
OK.
So we have native
population saying--
and this again, we're
going to-- for the moment,
in this conversation, we'll
place this near pyramids, where
pyramids exist, which there
are many, many, many, many
more than have been discovered.
I just came back yesterday
from a trip to South Africa.
And I got from Michael
Tellinger the information
that he thinks that
there are some three
pyramids in a valley.
And we went there,
the last few days,
and we did some
research on the spot.
And further research, now
with my friends technology,
and I'm quite sure that even
there, we found three pyramids.
REGINA MEREDITH:
In the same area
where these stone circles and--
KLAUS DONA: Adam's calendar.
Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH:
And roughly Adam's
calendar and all of that.
The stone circles.
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
So again, we're
looking at probably
an advanced civilization
from elsewhere
because certainly,
we haven't found
any evidence that locals built
these incredible structures.
And now you're saying, in the
words of the locals themselves,
the legend is, no,
we didn't build them.
The giants built them.
Right?
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
And last time I
was here with you,
I had the privilege
of holding in my hand
the occipital bone
of a being, which
appeared to be very human,
a humanoid or human being.
That was judged to
be by the analyst
at the universities
in Vienna-- right?
KLAUS DONA: Yes.
You had anatomy
labs look at it.
The occipital bone of
someone maybe between 22, 23,
24 feet tall.
Right.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right in there.
Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: And that--
you are in possession
of that at this time?
Yes.
But you're saying-- from
what I'm understanding,
the evidence is, there are these
giants all over the planet.
That's right.
You always find evidence.
Even last year, I
got the information
in Visoko-- the
Ambassador of Pakistan,
he was there at our conference.
And he explained also
about the giant skeleton
findings in Pakistan.
So all over the world
you have stories
and reports about over
sized humans from 22
feet down to 10 feet, 15 feet.
All different sizes.
KLAUS DONA (VIDEO PLAYBACK):
That's an oversized skull
from United States.
Another big skull.
Very old photo, but it shows
that such artifacts were
already in other centuries.
This is a coal head.
It is not sure yet if it
is a normal coal head or
a real, petrified human skull.
Another long skull from IKA.
And this IKA is
located very close
to the famous Nazca Lines.
A so called cone
head, also from IKA.
And this, in my opinion,
is the most strangest skull
because it is very
big, very long,
and still has part of the
skin and hairs on top.
So Klaus, what
this is showing us
is that we have
completely misunderstood
history around this planet.
And that there
pyramids everywhere.
You're finding them
all over the place.
Far more than we'll probably
excavate-- than will ever be
excavated within our lifetime.
And so what does
this mean to you?
They must have had a very
special function, which
we cannot explain until today.
But Professor Osmanagic
is doing a lot of research
at The Sun Pyramid in
Bosnia with scientists.
And they found out
already several incredible
informations, but you will
get this detailed information
from him--
We'll get these from
some of your-- OK.
---personally.
So I don't think that the
majority of the pyramids
were tombs or graves.
I don't think so.
REGINA MEREDITH: No.
Because even in the
big pyramid in Egypt,
they didn't find any
mummy or any dead person.
No.
So they had other functions.
Second one is,
for me, until now,
there's no explanation why they
built these pyramids globally.
Worldwide.
Everywhere.
In the Pacific area on islands.
Which gives us another hint to
the so called sunken continents
Mu and Atlantis.
But usually, you should
not talk about this
because they never existed.
It's just a legend.
And I also got, a few days
ago, a very interesting DVD
about the finding of the
so called Atlantis looking
construction, or earth
movement, exactly like Plato
was explaining in his--
Plato.
KLAUS DONA: Plato.
-Yes.
Yes.
KLAUS DONA: In Mauritania.
Oh, in Mauritania.
OK.
I read about that.
Erich von Daniken's recent book
talks about Plato's description
of what Atlantis
was like that he
was given from a
much more-- a much
more elderly teacher himself.
And you're saying this
is found in Mauritania?
Mauritania and inside the land.
But those researchers explained
that there was sea in old days.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And the structure itself, even
on Google Earth you can see it,
it looks like the
explanation of Plato.
Interesting.
So with my friend, we tried
to do research on this area.
Maybe we are on the right way.
So it looks like
the evidence-- there
is some evidence
there may be truth
in this particular region.
KLAUS DONA: Could be.
Very interesting.
Klaus, I just-- I
love talking with you.
I know that you have
many, many more things
you can't even talk about
just yet because they're
still works in progress.
Sure.
REGINA MEREDITH: Which means
I probably will have to come
to Vienna again next year.
I hope so.
So that we can catch
up on what's going to be
known between now and then.
And meanwhile, your incredible
video, "The Klaus Dona
Chronicles."
KLAUS DONA (VIDEO
PLAYBACK): From 1992 on,
I did many, big
cultural exhibitions
from Austria in Japan.
From 2001 until
these days, I think
it changed my way meaning
a lot about human history,
about the history
of civilizations,
about the age of
human, about Darwinism,
and many other things.
It was a great
experience unforgettable,
and it was the beginning
of a successful research.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you look at the size of
the dinosaurs and the human,
it looks like the
human, at this time,
might have been very, very tall.
The so-called the giants.
These are ceramics showing
also kind of dinosaurs.
On many of the
stone in carvings,
you always find a big, big leaf,
but there is no explanation
what purpose had this big leaf.
Here, again, two persons
sitting on a dinosaurs.
If the size of the
dinosaurs compared
with the size of the human, they
must have been real tall man.
If all those stones
would recognize
by the scientific world, we
would have a missing link
of around 60 to 65 million
years from the oldest
human found until
now and those human
presented on those stones.
I never get tired of
seeing these videos.
Just amazing work you've done.
And thank you for having a
heart big enough to take this
on because I know it
hasn't been easy for you.
This is a-- this
is a lone journey,
to go outside of mainstream.
It's not easy at all,
but it's exciting.
And every information,
every piece, new artifact
is a kind like a puzzle.
And maybe one day, if we
have a lot of informations
and everything, we can really
make out a good picture
about human's past.
I agree with you.
I think it's the most
exciting endeavor of all.
Again, thank you
so much for joining
us today here, in Vienna.
Thank you very much, Regina.
Thank you.
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
[WIND BLOWING]